time dynamic to energy intensity of water? 

e.g., could grid services flexibility be lower during a drought?
e.g., could energy intensity be higher during a drought?

would be important for valuing those services.

demonstrated on test system (generic?)

p.2.
line 37-38 -- what does 'steady state' transmission of water mean? Is that realistic in real systems? in the intro, you said no one had every looked at time dynamic energy intensity, and it seems like you're not really either, apart from a pumping schedule optimized to minimize electricity costs. That seems a little trivial (energy intensity would be during low price hours?).

p.3. what exogenous inputs determine schedule apart from electricity prices? demands?

p.3. does time averaging the tank filling energy obscurve variability in MEI?

Figure 1 - what is the primary cause for MEI gradient? is it the location of the 3 different pre-injection energy intensities?

Figure 2 B - not really clear up to this point why there is daily variation in MEI; I would discuss a bit more up front, if the ability to capture that is a novel contribution here.

Why is spatial heterogeniety in MEI useful to know (just tells you people are using different water)? (and temporal)? I would like to see an applied example of its use. 

Sensitivity analysis - lines 5-9 "marginality" = insensitive to modest perturbations in water consumption profile at a single node, therefore useful for assessing changes in behavior? What about changes that are not modest that would be enacted for entire system? A bit confused here. 

Sounds like throughout here you're reporting MEI spatial/temporally averaged MEI values. Would sensitivity to any of these variables vary across space, time?

line 34. a single consumer node? Have you been reporting results on this?

Figure 4 - are the colors pressure zones?

would it be more useful to compare results of this elevation/pressure sensitivity analysis to those reported for the system depicted in Figure 2?

line 14-15 - highest MEI values look like they're associated with lower elevation...Can't see in the Figure what this is referring to. 

20-35 -- I buy both of these, it would just be cool to see an example. What's the benefit of MEI, when compared to a conventional approach for leveraging WDN for DR on the grid? 

Does the simulated annealing algorithm give roughly the same pumping schedule, if you don't change any variables (price patterns)?

It seems like an interesting source of uncertainty would be hydrologic conditions (especially in a place like CA). What about CAs surface water system for ag?  

Methods - mentions time horizon, but I can't find that specified

Note 1 - how can you determine the benefits of MEI relative to pressure zone if you: 1) don't compare the two methods directly; and 2) explore influence of pressure zone (vs. other features) for two different systems?

Difficult to understand magnitude of this contribution.

Note 2 - how robust are the results to randomness in the optimization process.

Figure S4 - it seems significant that there are certain hours that show uniform MEI across the network. Why is this, and what the implications would be for the design of interventions? 

Note 6. Yes, but what if large numbers of consumers are doing this. Isn't that the point?



